# SysTec Smart Thermostat
## Summary
Develop a working prorotype of a low-level thermostat functionality. For the prototype, the following will be used:
- The AHT20 temperature sensor to read the room temperature (via I2C)
- Two status LEDs to indicate whether the system is heating or cooling with the output to the thermostat
  - Red LED fading in and out = heat on (via GPIO) 
  - Blue LED fading in and out = cooling on (via GPIO)
- One button to toggle between three states: off, heating, and cooling
- Two buttons to increase and decrease the set temperature (via GPIO interrupt)

The date and time, current temperature, and temperature set point should be displayed on the LCD, and data will be sent through the serial port (UART) from the thermostat to simulate the data being sent to the server. 

For this project I used a Raspberry Pi 4 B module to synchronize the code with the items listed above. I used Python to write code that initializes the state machine and uses it to drive specified actions. The code detects button presses using the GPIOZero library to process the GPIO interrupts generated by the button presses as well as initialize the GPIO peripherals to indicate whether the system is heading or cooling via LED. The code also initializes the I2C peripheral and use it to read the temperature sensor and initializes the UART peripheral and output specified data to the server.

# What did you do particuarly well?
Creating the prototype with the hardware was extremely fun. Creating electrical circuits and implementing code to create physical actions was very satisfying. The possibilies of what a Raspberry Pi module can do are truly endless.

# Where could you improve?
Handling specific actions and creating fail safes is where I could improve. I did not fully test the prototype in the sense of misuse. The prototype works in every aspect that it should, but I did not test what would happen if two buttons were to be pressed at the same time, differentiate long holds versus short presses, or set a temperature limit like cooling can only go to 65 and heating can only raised to 85. 

# What tools and/or resources are you adding to your support network?
Extensive use and research of libraries would benefit the support network. As well as community support networks such as Discord, Reddit, StackOverflow, and of course, Github. 

# What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects and/or course work?
This level of a state machine was a new adventure, but it is knowledge that I will carry with me for the rest of my career. When it comes to embedded systems, it seems that state machines will be behind the wheel almost every time. Before this course, especially using different languages like Java, this project would have been done with a lot more code and functions. This is not only more taxing on the system itself, but for the coder as well. Granted, this was a relativley simple system, but it was done using very minimal code which was surprising.

# How did you make this project maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
Using excessive comments throughout the code makes the file maintainable and readable. I try to explain what each function does beforehand as well as comment out certain lines, so if somebody besides me is working on my code, they can easily read and understand what I am trying to accomplish. The code can also be scaled up by using existing functions. For example, the function setupSerialOutput() is already sending the current state of the thermostat, the temperature in degrees Fahrenheit, and the current setpoint of the thermostat in a comma delimited string. A new function can be created to send this information to a server, rather than the command line. 
